[Music]
ready
set go eight cars in front of you
okay no worries trust your driving
skills and in no time
you're gonna be leading the race it's
unfortunate you've started from the back
of the race
but these other drivers have nothing on
you you know this nascar track like the
back of your own hand
nice perfectly cut corner instantly
you're three spots ahead
now focus look straight ahead careful
that's a car hit the brakes quickly oh
shoot it's not going to work
you're going to crash hit the eject
button now
oh that was close and what if your car
didn't have an ejection seat thankfully
it does
now you're safely gliding back down with
your car seat parachute
but wait a minute cars don't have
ejection seats
why does yours have oh a dream
anyway why not well to begin with
cars are already equipped with a lot of
safety measures
you've got your airbags your seat belts
your traction control
amongst many others an ejection seat
would probably
not be a good addition to these it might
destabilize the whole delicate system
that's been designed over the years
still there's always room for
improvement
fighter planes for example do have
ejection seats
they're necessary but only as a last
resort
a fighter jet will usually carry
explosives or fighting equipment
things can go wrong when you're flying
with hazardous materials on board
plus these planes are usually small and
compact
it's easier for a feature like this to
be installed on a plane
ejection from a jet is relatively fast
it only takes two seconds from the pull
of the handle to the deployment of the
parachute
it's an unpleasant experience to put it
lightly
when you pull the handle and the
sequence begins your spine absorbs
tremendous g-force
a pilot that once experienced this said
that when it happened
he lost a full inch in height it might
sound fun in theory
almost like riding a roller coaster but
it's not
so get that out of your head before you
go on injecting yourself into the air
commercial planes don't have ejection
seats either it would be much harder to
introduce this feature in an enormous
plane
instead of the please fasten your seat
belt signs
you might end up having please don't
click your seat's ejection button
warning because they know people will be
tempted to press it
say something does go wrong and everyone
has to press the ejection seat button
the parachutes would end up tangled
together and seats might collide with
each other in the air
experience is another thing to think
about average
joe isn't trained to use a parachute
picture
a movie the two couples are on vacation
and they want to get to one of the
islands in the country they're visiting
however
the only way they're going to get there
is by taking a small four passenger
plane
before boarding the captain briefs them
with all the needed information
in this briefing proper usage of a
parachute was included
let's call them couple one and couple
two
couple one listens carefully pays
attention and reads the pamphlet the
captains just handed them
couple two was too busy talking to each
other about the fun things they were
going to do on the island
the captain doesn't care since the plane
ride is only 30 minutes
and nothing has ever happened in his 10
years of service
still they were given a pamphlet too
they're all enjoying their trip
laughing and taking the beautiful
scenery in suddenly
disaster strikes one of the engines has
stopped working
oh no couple one paid attention
they know what to do they remain calm
and listen to the captain's instructions
couple two start panicking the plane's
going down
and they have no idea what to do oh if
only they had listened
they would have known this particular
plane is able to land on water
and that's exactly what the captain's
about to do still
out of fear for their safety they start
looking for a way out
they notice their seats have an ejection
button oh a big red one too
they press it and instantly they're both
ejected
they weren't ready for how abrupt it was
going to be they certainly don't know
how to use the parachutes they're
wearing either
what button do they press and when panic
and terror
are all they're feeling right now
thankfully
they're only a few feet from the water
their ejection went badly
but the only bad thing that happened to
them was going for a higher than usual
dive and the brutal ejection there's a
boat nearby too
so they get quickly rescued maybe next
time they'll pay attention to the
captain's briefing
anyway for ejection seats to actually
work there has to be a way for them to
fly
out of the aircraft when the handle is
pulled a chain of events is set off
and depending on the aircraft the top is
either lifted
blown off or if it's glass it will be
shattered
to lift the canopy there are bolts
filled with explosive charges
they detach the canopy from the aircraft
shattering the glass is also done with
the help of explosives
the remains of the explosion won't hit
the aeronaut because of the plane's
motion
the fragments will be left behind lastly
blowing the hatch off is you guessed it
done with explosives too
they're in the bolts and when they're
set off off goes the plane's hatch
unless you're a stunt driver or james
bond you probably
want nothing to do with an ejection seat
in your car
you're driving on a peaceful country
road not much is happening
in a few miles there's a tunnel coming
up you know this because you've been on
this road a thousand times
however this time the tunnel was under
construction
you didn't know since it's a peaceful
road
no cars in sight you decide to check
that message that was driving you nuts
with curiosity
you enter the tunnel but the roads cut
off in a couple of feet
it's too late to turn around now or even
brake safely
you're going to hit it no matter what
you hit the brakes anyway
your car gets a bit scraped up but
you're okay
because the airbag had your back or
rather your face
you weren't even hurt but instead of an
airbag
what if you had an ejection seat oh boy
as soon as you pressed the ejection
button you'd have gone straight up into
the tunnel's ceiling
and that's only one scenario though
even if you had pressed the button
earlier there'd still be no guarantee
you'd be safe
your body would feel tremendous g-force
and then you'd be a few feet up in the
air
with no idea where to go you might land
in a herd of animals
or in a tree on a highway it would be
even worse
if you ejected there you could land on
top of a car
or maybe in the middle of the road with
a bunch of cars going by at insane
speeds
getting into an accident is never good
but your car has ways of reducing the
damage you'll take
or even prevent it altogether an
ejection seat is just too much of a wild
card to have
it's already very sturdy too so you'll
at least
have something to absorb most of the
damage now if cars could fly
maybe then they would have ejection
seats as sci-fi as it is
people have dreamed about flying cars
for decades
waiting on a sidewalk for your flying
taxi is as futuristic as it gets
instead of wheels you would have
propellers that would swirl around
invisible lanes in the sky specifically
for them
and if you were to look up there would
be thousands of cars a few miles
above you just flying around from point
a to point b
but they'd be really loud and probably
create a lot of pollution too
we already have flying taxis they're
called helicopters
and private planes it's not for everyone
but it exists
and if we wait enough the real flying
cars will surely appear
technology has come really far let's not
forget the first computer occupied about
1800 square feet
and weighed more than 30 tons nowadays
we're lucky to be able to put our
laptops in our backpacks
there are even computers so tiny you can
fit them in your pocket
and they're still probably better than
the first one ever made